
Weapon
Attack Boost	Increases attack power.
Offensive Guard	Temporarily increases attack power after executing a perfectly-timed guard.
Critical Eye	Increases affinity.
Critical Boost	Increases the damage of critical hits.
Critical Draw	Increases affinity when performing draw attacks. (Not effective while riding.)
Fire Attack	Increases fire element attack power. (Elemental attack power has a maximum limit.)
Water Attack	Increases water element attack power. (Elemental attack power has a maximum limit.)
Ice Attack	Increases ice element attack power. (Elemental attack power has a maximum limit.)
Thunder Attack	Increases thunder element attack power. (Elemental attack power has a maximum limit.)
Dragon Attack	Increases dragon element attack power. (Elemental attack power has a maximum limit.)
Poison Attack	Increases the rate of poison buildup. (Poison buildup has a maximum limit.)
Paralysis Attack	Increases the rate of paralysis buildup. (Paralysis buildup has a maximum limit.)
Sleep Attack	Increases the rate of sleep buildup. (Sleep buildup has a maximum limit.)
Blast Attack	Increases the rate of blast buildup. (Blast buildup has a maximum limit.)
Critical Element	Increases elemental damage (fire, water, thunder, ice, dragon) when landing critical hits.
Critical Status	Increases abnormal status effects (paralysis, poison, sleep, blast) when landing critical hits.
Charge Master	Increases element power and status buildup for charged attacks.
Handicraft	Extends the weapon sharpness gauge. However, it will not increase the gauge past its maximum.
Razor Sharp	Prevents your weapon from losing sharpness.
Protective Polish	Weapon sharpness does not decrease for a set time after sharpening.
Mind's Eye	Your attacks are deflected less and deal more damage to hard targets.
Bludgeoner	Increases attack power when your weapon sharpness is low.
Master's Touch	Prevents your weapon from losing sharpness during critical hits.
Normal Shots	Increases the attack power of Normal Ammo, normal arrows, and Flying Swallow Shot.
Piercing Shots	Increases the attack of the bowgun's Pierce Ammo, and the bow's Dragon Piercer and Thousand Dragons.
Spread/Power Shots	Increases the attack of the bowgun's Spread Ammo and the bow's Power Shots and Quick Shots.
Ballistics	Extends the range in which ammo and arrows have maximum power.
Rapid Fire Up	Improves light bowgun rapid fire.
Opening Shot	Increases the bowgun's reload speed and increases the power of bullets when fully loaded.
Tetrad Shot	Increases affinity of bowgun ammo/ coatings from the fourth shot and attack of the fourth and sixth shots.
Special Ammo Boost	Increases the power of the bowgun's special ammo, and the bow's Dragon Piercer, Thousand Dragons, and Tracer.
Poison Functionality	Allows you to apply poison coatings.
Para Functionality	Allows you to apply paralysis coatings.
Sleep Functionality	Allows you to apply sleep coatings.
Blast Functionality	Allows you to apply blast coatings.
Exhaust Functionality	Allows you to apply exhaust coatings.
Focus	Increases the fill rate for weapons with gauges and the charge rate for weapons with charge attacks.
Power Prolonger	Allows long swords, dual blades, insect glaives, switch axes, and charge blades to stay powered up longer.
Punishing Draw	Adds a stun effect to draw attacks and slightly increases attack power. (Not effective while riding.)
Slugger	Makes it easier to stun monsters.
Stamina Thief	Increases certain attacks' ability to exhaust monsters.
Artillery	Strengthens explosive attacks like shells, Wyvern's Fire, charge blade phial attacks, and Sticky Ammo.
Rapid Morph	Increases switch speed and power for switch axes and charge blades.
Horn Maestro	Increases the effect duration of hunting horn melodies. (Effect lost when you change weapons.)
Charge Up	Increases your power to induce stun when you hit a monster with a hammer's charged attack.
Airborne	Increases the damage caused by jumping attacks.
Poison Duration Up	Extends the duration of your poison's effect on monsters.
Guard	Reduces knockbacks and stamina depletion when guarding.
Guard Up	Allows you to guard against ordinarily unblockable attacks.
Load Shells	Improves reloading, and increases the gunlance's shell capacity and charge blade's phial capacity.
Speed Sharpening	Speeds up weapon sharpening when using a whetstone.
Equip
Resentment	Increases attack when you have recoverable damage (the red portion of your Health Gauge).
Adrenaline Rush	Temporarily increases attack power after executing a perfectly-timed evade just as a monster attacks.
Peak Performance	Increases attack when your health is full.
Counterstrike	Temporarily increases attack power after being knocked back.
Weakness Exploit	Increases the affinity of attacks that exploit a monster's weak points and wounds.
Maximum Might	Increases affinity if stamina is kept full for a period of time.
Convert Element	After taking elemental damage, temporarily grants you dragon element effects. (Cooldown after effect ends.)
Defense Boost	Increases defense. Also improves resistances at higher levels.
Divine Blessing	Has a predetermined chance of reducing the damage you take.
Fire Resistance	Increases fire resistance. Also improves defense at higher levels.
Water Resistance	Increases water resistance. Also improves defense at higher levels.
Thunder Resistance	Increases thunder resistance. Also improves defense at higher levels.
Ice Resistance	Increases ice resistance. Also improves defense at higher levels.
Dragon Resistance	Increases dragon resistance. Also improves defense at higher levels.
Poison Resistance	Reduces damage while poisoned.
Paralysis Resistance	Reduces the duration of paralysis.
Sleep Resistance	Reduces the duration of sleep.
Iron Skin	Grants protection against defense down.
Blight Resistance	Grants protection against all elemental blights.
Stun Resistance	Reduces the duration of stun.
Bleeding Resistance	Grants protection against bleeding.
Bind Resistance	Grants protection against webbed status and frostblight.
Blast Resistance	Grants protection against blastblight.
Stench Resistance	Grants protection against stench.
Adaptability	Grants protection against environmental damage, such as from heat or cold.
Recovery Up	Increases the amount recovered when restoring health.
Recovery Speed	Speeds healing of recoverable damage (the red portion of the Health Gauge).
Survival Expert	Extra health is recovered from environmental interactables.
Constitution	Reduces stamina depletion when evading, blocking, or doing certain other actions.
Stamina Surge	Speeds up stamina recovery.
Marathon Runner	Slows down stamina depletion for actions that continuously drain stamina (such as dashing).
Hunger Resistance	Reduces maximum stamina depletion over time.
Agitator	Increases attack power and affinity when large monsters become enraged.
Latent Power	Temporarily increases affinity and reduces stamina depletion when certain conditions are met.
Heroics	Increases attack power and defense when health drops to 35% or lower.
Burst	Continuously landing hits gradually increases attack and elemental attack. (Amount increased depends on weapon.)
Foray	Increases attack power and affinity against large monsters affected by poison or paralysis.
Flayer	Makes it easier to inflict wounds. Upon inflicting enough damage, also deals additional non-elemental damage.
Palico Rally	Powers up Palicoes.
Partbreaker	Makes it easier to break large monster parts, and increases damage dealt when destroying a wound with a Focus Strike.
Coalescence	Temporarily increases elemental attack power and status effects after recovering from blights or abnormal status.
Ambush	Temporarily increases damage to large monsters with a successful Sneak Attack.
Antivirus	Once infected, makes it easier to overcome the Frenzy and increases affinity if cured.
Elemental Absorption	After taking elemental damage, temporarily grants you element effects. (Cooldown after effect ends)
Self-Improvement	Attack and defense increase as time passes while on a quest. (The maximum is reached after 30 minutes.)
Evade Window	Extends the invulnerability period when evading.
Evade Extender	Increases evade distance.
Earplugs	Grants protection from large monsters' roars.
Quick Sheathe	Speeds up weapon sheathing.
Windproof	Grants protection against wind pressure.
Tremor Resistance	Grants protection against ground tremors.
Flinch Free	Prevents knockbacks and other reactions to small damage.
Intimidator	Reduces the chance small monsters will attack after spotting you. (Has no effect on certain monsters.)
Speed Eating	Increases meat-eating and item-consumption speed.
Aquatic/Oilsilt Mobility	Grants resistance against impairments to mobility while in water, oilsilt, or streams.
Shock Absorber	Disables damage reactions when you hit a friend or when a friend hits you.
Leap of Faith	Allows you to do a dive-evade when facing towards large monsters and extends the dive-evade distance.
Jump Master	Prevents attacks from knocking you back during a jump.
Cliffhanger	Decreases stamina depletion when climbing on vines.
Wide-Range	Allows the effects of certain items to also affect nearby allies.
Tool Specialist	Reduces the recharge time for specialized tools.
Bombardier	Increases the damage of explosive items.
Mushroomancer	Lets you digest mushrooms that would otherwise be inedible and gain their advantageous effects.
Item Prolonger	Extends the duration of some item effects.
Free Meal	Gives you a predetermined chance of consuming a food or drink item for free.
Blindsider	Improves the effectiveness of flash attacks and items.
Botanist	Increases the quantity of herbs and other consumable items you gather.
Geologist	Increases the number of items you gain at gathering points.
Entomologist	The bodies of small insect monsters won't be destroyed, allowing them to be carved.
Outdoorsman	Improves fishing, grilling, and transporting abilities.
Group
Neopteron Alert	
3 → Increases the amount of honey you gain from gathering points.
Neopteron Camouflage	
3 → Increases movement speed while crouching, and makes it easier to escape large monsters' detection.
Scaling Prowess	
3 → Makes it easier to mount monsters and to wound them once mounted.
Scale Layering	
3 → Temporarily reduces stamina depletion when health is at 40% or lower.
Flexible Leathercraft	
3 → Increases gathering speed, and prevents knock back when gathering or carving.
Buttery Leathercraft	
3 → Increases your affinity temporarily when sliding on terrain.
Fortifying Pelt	
3 → Increases attack and defense after fainting during a quest. (Can be used twice.)
Alluring Pelt	
3 → Increases the attention drawn to you when attacking a monster.
Lord's Favor	
3 → Temporarily increases attack power when using effects like Melody Effects that affect companions in range.
Lord's Fury	
3 → Increases attack when inflicted with ailments.
Guardian's Pulse	
3 → Increases recovery speed of stamina and red gauge when near Wylkrystals.
Guardian's Protection	
3 → Reduces elemental and unique damage while in the Ruins of Wyveria.
Imparted Wisdom	
3 → Increases the chance of finding rare gathering points.
Series
Doshaguma's Might	
2 → Temporarily grants attack +10 after a successful Power Clash or Offset attack
4 → Temporarily grants attack +25 after a successful Power Clash or Offset attack
Rathalos's Flare	
2 → Chance to deal additional fire damage after landing an attack.
4 → Increases additional fire damage after landing an attack.
Xu Wu's Vigor	
2 → Temporarily grants attack +15 after eating items such as well-done steak.
4 → Temporarily grants attack +25 after eating items such as well-done steak.
Gravios's Protection	
2 → Reduces the damage you take by 5% when your health is full.
4 → Reduces the damage you take by 10% when your health is full.
Blangonga's Spirit	
2 → Using the To Victory! gesture moderately increases attack temporarily to nearby allies. Greatly effects Palicoes and Support Hunters.
4 → Using the To Victory! gesture increases attack temporarily to nearby allies. Greatly effects Palicoes and Support Hunters.
Ebony Odogaron's Power	
2 → Extends the duration of the Burst skill and grants attack +3 while Burst is active.
4 → Further extends the duration of the Burst skill and grants attack +10 while Burst is active.
Fulgur Anjanath's Will	
2 → Grants an additional Stamina Gauge.
4 → Grants an additional long Stamina Gauge.
Uth Duna's Cover	
2 → Increases defense temporarily when using a specialized tool.
4 → Greatly increases defense and resistance temporarily when using a specialized tool.
Rey Dau's Voltage	
2 → Moderately extends the activation time of the Latent Power skill.
4 → Extends the activation time of the Latent Power skill.
Nu Udra's Mutiny	
2 → Deals moderate additional damage while the Resentment skill is active.
4 → Deals additional damage while the Resentment skill is active.
Jin Dahaad's Revolt	
2 → Increases attack after recovering from webbed status, frostblight, being pinned, or a Power Clash.
4 → Greatly increases attack after recovering from webbed status, frostblight, being pinned, or a Power Clash.
Gore Magala's Tyranny	
2 → Infects you with Frenzy when against large monsters.
4 → Infects you with Frenzy and raises attack when against large monsters. Attack power increases upon recovery.
Arkveld's Hunger	
2 → Regenerates a small amount of your health as you continually attack a monster. Recovery varies by weapon.
4 → Regenerates your health as you continually attack a monster. Recovery varies by weapon.
Guardian Arkveld's Vitality	
2 → Restores a moderate amount of health when destroying a wound on a large monster.
4 → Restores health when destroying a wound on a large monster.